### Online A/B testing (of an advertising platform)
#### Metrics
For an ML system, “success” can be measured in numerous ways.
##### 1. Overall ads engagement rate (e.g. CTR)
##### 2. Overall revenue (spend)
##### 3. Counter metrics (user experience)
- average queries per user; number of returning users; session success rate (for search engines)
- direct negative feedback by the user: Hide ad; Never see this ad; Report ad as inappropriate
##### 4. Fill rate, CPM, eCTR, eCPM, etc.
#### Statistical Analysis
##### Tests (to test multiple hypotheses to see the impact on the system)
- A: control; B: test (variation)
- Before the test:
  - Power Analysis Test: to determine how much overall traffic should be given to the system (the minimum sample size required to see the impact)
    - Then, half goes to control, and the other half goes to the variation.
- Two hypotheses for one A/B test:
  - The null hypothesis, H0:
    - the design change will have no impact on the variation (or system)
  - The alternative hypothesis, H1:
    - alternate to the null hypothesis, the design change will have an effect on the variation. 
  - If the null hypothesis is rejected, we should launch the design change.
- After the test:
  - Computing statistical significance
    - P-value: 是指比现在的观察值更极端的概率。如果很小，说明这个更极端的情况不太可能发生，说明现在的值已经很极端了，所以要拒绝null hypothesis.
    - significance level: a boundary for specifying a statistically significant finding when interpreting the p-value. A commonly used value for the significance level is 5% written as 0.05.
    - significance test
      - p <= alpha: reject H0 - launch the new feature (statistically significant)
      - p > alpha: fail to reject H0 - do not launch the new feature 
    - understanding: If an A/B test is run with the outcome of a significance level of 95% (p-value ≤ 0.05), there is a 5% probability that the variation that we see is by chance.
#### Long term effects measurement
##### Backtesting [seems not necessary]
##### Long-running A/B tests (one way, e.g. just keep some traffic for the old version for a long time)
